(enchanting techno music)
This is a second part of a discussion
with Jane Lahr, who was involved with Joan Grant
in examining previous lifetimes.
A bond was formed, and Jane has dedicated
some of her publishing career to keep Joan's work alive.
In this conversation, we're going to speak of Joan's time
as a Native American, and also with Mary and Jesus.
And this is of particular interest to me
because she chose not to publish
this information in her lifetime.
So we're going to talk about that.
But let's launch in.
We spent a good amount of time in our last conversation
talking about Joan herself, and also the Winged Pharaoh,
which is just a beautiful book.
So I highly recommend anybody pick up a copy
of Winged Pharaoh to start.
What's interesting, excuse me, is that
it has been literally in publication.
It has never been out of print
since 1937!
37.
And this is 2014.
Almost 80 years.
Never out of print
That's really phenomenal.
It's one of the great spiritual books
ever published.
It really is, it really is.
So now, she had a lot of other books too.
She did, lots of incarnations.
Yeah, lot of incarnations.
We're going to talk about the life and time of Moses
because in Sunday school, oh, and there he was,
he was found in a little reed basket floating in the river
and a wonderful lady came and found him
and blah, blah, blah.
So I want to get into some of the life and times
and politics.
And first, let's set up who Joan was in that lifetime.
Right.
So I will call Joan, Neb, who was...
Iit's the shorter version of his name because it's easier.
He was the older brother of Ramoses II,
who ended up being pharaoh, he was supposed to be pharaoh.
But he adored Sensen and--
Who is Sensen?
Sensen was at court with him, I think a cousin, I believe.
And he had loved her deeply
and Seti I, in his wisdom, realized that
Neb really should be with Sensen in a special place
and have their own place and not at court.
And it would be safer for Sensen because
there was mischief at court.
Ramoses' mother was very jealous of Sensen
and wanted to see her out of the picture and so...
Anyways so
Ramoses II, who was younger than Neb
and not as wise,
I mean Neb had real wisdom, young, had energy,
was a warrior, enthusiastic,
would make a better pharaoh for that period.
I think Seti was correct.
And so Neb and Sensen,
Seti I gave them a piece of property
that was very special to Seti and his first wife,
and it was a lovely area with a lake,
and they went there and they had a community there
that was very close to the earlier Egyptian culture,
where there--
Yes, much more wisdom.
There was wisdom, where people were treated,
animals and people were treated kindly and well.
And that was lovely.
And then Ramoses
went back to be pharaoh,
which is what his mother wanted, he was the second.
The mother was the second wife of Seti I.
And now, as pharaoh, he had a tremendous number of wives
and children.
Yes, I mean he...
Well, on his way back to accept,
after Seti I has died, he goes back to court
and he meets a young girl who sees him as a boy
and he sees her as a girl.
There's love there, real love.
Is this Habakkuk or is this before Habakkuk?
This is before, this is...
I think her name was Iry.
And so he goes back to court
and his mother, who's very manipulative
and capable of poisoning and capable of very bad things,
you know, thinks she has control of Ramoses.
But Ramoses says, "I am Pharaoh,"
and so he owns that.
But along with that, his relationship to women,
given the mother he has, is quite complicated.
So he's always proving himself
with different wives and concubines and yet
the young woman,
Iry, he brings back to the palace, to court,
and she becomes ill and really, I think the mother
has her, a priest of omen ends up,
they get her a way to...
To poison her?
Yeah, poison her, or she suffers from some magic,
and she ends up...
No, she doesn't die but she goes to be with Neb and Sensen
in their special area that I think it was called
the Living Waters.
And she's healed, she's healed there from the magic.
And then Ramoses becomes very powerful.
He's quite a good pharaoh, really.
I mean, he keeps peace, he conquers the enemy,
but he wants ah,
he wants an heir that's winged.
As the winged pharaoh once was.
He wants a true heir, someone--
Now he has over a hundred kids by the time,
as I understand, by the time Moses is born,
he's had over a hundred but he's not finding the one?
No, he isn't, but Neb, who has the real gift of dreaming,
would be able to identify.
He was one of the brothers, there were three of them.
Was it Neb that had the dream that you will have the heir?
Yes, and knew that he would have the heir.
And Ramoses had a dream that he would have an heir.
So how do we do this?
They wanted to have a virgin, so many, 20 virgins
to have this child and...
It was 28 nights, 28 different virgins
and he didn't know which one but of one of them,
the heir was to be born, right?
Now to have the Eyes of Horus, it's interesting,
to have the eyes of Ra means I see love in everyone.
You can see the soul in everyone.
But to have the Eyes of Horus, it means you see the good
and the bad.
You see the strength and the vulnerabilities.
That's real wisdom, if you have the Eyes of Horus.
You really see the whole picture.
There's nothing missing.
So they wanted that, he wanted that pharaoh, that pharaoh.
On the last night, I think,
a young girl comes,
and Ramoses does not pretend to be pharaoh.
He just pretends to be a soldier and the young girl
is just a poor girl from...
Actually, she was from an area where
the semitic Jewish conclave.
She was Jewish or Hebrew?
Right, Hebrew, Hebrew.
But she's very beautiful
And kind.
And kindhearted,
and they fall in love.
I mean, he says, "Oh, the old man's asleep in there,
"let's eat the meal that they have, he'll never wake up."
And they fall in love.
And she was very young, 15 year old.
Yeah, beautiful 15 year old.
And so she goes back and he wants to
get her some gold sandals because
she dreamed of having gold sandals.
So he tells his brother, we're going to get her gold sandals
and I will find her,
and the brother says, "Oh my God, she was run over
"by a chariot."
Because, we have to explain the politics.
The Egyptian could not marry a Hebrew.
No, this was not something.
And of course Ramoses is totally upset and depressed
about all of this and in crisis about this
and just outraged by it.
But the dreams persist.
Neb has another dream, Horus appears, golden feathers.
This is, you know...
It ends up coming out that in fact, the young girl
did not die.
The truth comes out.
She had a baby.
Well, that's right, she's quite pregnant,
and they want to be there.
Neb wants to be there, Ramoses wants to be there.
And so the truth comes out,
the brother confessed that he lied, she was Jewish.
So that night that she's born, Ramoses, Neb,
they go to this hovel and this beautiful girl
is reunited with the man she loves.
And this baby, Ramoses helps her give birth to his baby.
So now, Ramoses has a baby
with this Jewish woman and--
And he can't claim her in court.
No, and the girl does not want to be queen.
She does not want to be queen.
And so she is given the honor
of being champion of pharaoh's heart,
holder of pharaoh's heart.
And Ramsey had a daughter
who was trained as a priestess of Hathor.
And I think she was barren or something.
She was barren, she couldn't have children.
Yes, yes.
But she was a priestess of Hathor,
Hathor is the goddess of love and nurturance and motherhood.
And so they come up with this wonderful
perfect plan that the daughter would adopt
this baby as her own,
and then Ramoses can honor this baby
to be the next pharaoh, the winged pharaoh.
But when they see the baby born,
all of the symbols of Horus were there.
They saw that this was an evolved soul
that could be a winged pharaoh, basically.
So they create this thing--
And the girl, the mother, the real mother's
heart's desire, Habakkuk comes on as the wetnurse
for the baby, as I recall.
That's exactly correct.
And stays as a nurse so she's in companionship
with her son.
And she is the holder of pharaoh's heart,
and so she raises the baby.
It's adopted by this lovely daughter,
and so indeed,
Moses was an initiate.
He was an initiate of the priesthood in Egypt, absolutely,
and was also a gifted magician, actually.
A gifted magician.
And so how's the story about being found in the little
basket happen?
I think they created
a little cradle, reed cradle and put the baby in it
and they did a little theatrical with, you know--
Oh, what a surprise!
A little baby!
Shall we raise him as our own?
Yes, yes, I will adopt him, he's so beautiful.
And so that is how Moses was born.
So very interesting to me, of course
and to anyone interested in the story of Moses as well.
We want the next book, Joan of--
Yes.
The Exodus book.
So really, that book gets up to the point where
he was born and what his Egyptian family background
was all about.
Now it's also interesting.
So if you go in Boston,
to a great collection in Boston at the Museum of Fine Arts
of Old Kingdom sculpture, you will see sculptures
where Horus, you'll see a pharaoh and the wings,
Horus head and wings,
and that means it's a winged pharaoh.
So you will find actually examples of winged Pharaohs.
Absolutely.
I mean, we think of it as something whimsical
or some kind of artistic depiction of someone,
where there was actually, as you say,
in the last interview, all this very rich initiatory
history behind that individual to earn
being depicted with wings.
And so Moses was essentially a winged pharaoh
in his own right.
Right, in terms of the later kingdom.
He had the eyes of Horus, which is that knowing,
seeing the whole truth.
And then of course, I do believe the 10 Commandments
are actually concised
or a concised version of 42 questions--
That we talked about in the last one, yes,
kind of got down to the bare-bones of it all.
It was a little less subtle by this time.
Right, but he was trying to control all of these people.
He was saying, "You must not," instead of
asking them questions.
It was a different problem.
Yes. Now let's go to Nefertiti and Akhenaton
and that time in Egypt, because to me,
that was the end of the potential for upholding
any light before it descended into black magic.
Joan, she didn't write about this,
but Ramoses II in So Moses Was Born,
said he respected two women
in the history of his country.
And why?
Because he thought
that Nefertiti, it was really the one God,
that she may have been Hyksos and therefore, semitic,
and she may have had semitic blood and she...
The idea of the one God was part of her experience.
But I thought that was really more Akhenaton
because Akhenaton--
Well, if she was Hyksos
and they believed in one God,
it would have been, yes, it was Akhenaton too.
But it would have very much been, you know,
it would have been Nefertiti as well.
Interesting, because she's relegated to being beautiful.
Exactly, and she was.
But she was also blind in one eye and when she was sculpted,
the sculptor, it is the most beautiful sculpture
in the world of her.
Are you talking about the one that's been
in Berlin--
Yes, exactly.
You'll see that she's blind in one eye
if you look at that sculpture.
Yes, and that's what was relayed by Joan also?
Yes
At some point,
that she had been known.
And her husband was called, "the heretic,"
in Joan's parlance,
her observation.
Well, that's right
because Seti I, heretic, my God,
the old religion was he said there's one God
and the Egyptians thought there were many gods, of course,
and worshiped many gods.
But it's all one.
And you know, it's interesting because in this lifetime,
in the work that I do,
I come across
some of those priests.
I don't know any other way to say it.
You mean the Middle Kingdom priests?
Middle Kingdom priests.
The mischief makers.
I come across them, I know who they are.
I mean, I'll be sitting with them or even just reading
their book and kind of suddenly see who this person,
where they were in history at that time,
and then it becomes so obvious why the reflection
in their writing is as it is,
and there are very divided camps about the Middle Kingdom
and also the older kingdom.
And usually, where you find a lot of criticism,
those were the priests.
Those were the more corrupt priests of the day
that were really looking to gain back their money base,
their power base, and those people are alive and well
and out on tour doing a lot of, yeah.
I've had that experience too.
Some of them have come to me and we've discussed
doing books together, and I wouldn't do it.
No, no.
As a publisher, you wouldn't do it, I know.
I get it.
(chuckles)
So okay, so now we're going to move...
I don't know if it's forward or backward,
it sounds like it might even be backward,
but now we're coming to Native American culture.
Yes, Scarlet Feather.
Well, I must say Scarlet Feather
is just a wonderful book.
It's like Winged Pharaoh but it's set in the time
of the Native American culture.
In the west, very ancient time in Native American culture.
And Piyanah and Raki.
She's the daughter of the chief and--
This is Joan now recalling this.
Right, she is the daughter of the chief of the tribe,
and I guess her cousin is Raki
who were suckled together because his mother died.
They're raised almost like twins.
They're raised like twins and they love each other.
But oddly enough, they're outside the tribe.
Their camp is always outside the tribe,
the chief never speaks to them, and
you come to realize that the mother of these,
the mother who's raising them had clairvoyant abilities
and the chief was really afraid
to incorporate her teachings and her ideas
into the life of the tribe.
She believed in a...
As I recall, didn't she have remembrances
of a much higher culture?
Again, a higher culture, system of justice
and it had descended by this time and chief was really
having a look at, well, this is our inheritance now
and she's going to be, could be a troublemaker almost.
Exactly, so when she dies, the chief realizes
when this wonderful woman who's raising these children
and raising them to be adventurous, curious,
honoring nature, making canoes, you know,
doing things children should do, and they were close
and loved one another...
So the chief, when she dies,
realizes that in his tribe,
the women of his tribe were treated really--
Poorly.
Well, as slaves almost.
I mean, they would have children but they--
They had no rights.
Yeah.
There was no real marriage
or honoring of what they brought to it.
It was all about the warriors and they were squaws
in the way sort of--
The way we classically understand it, yes.
And so he realized that these children,
Raki and his--
Piyanah.
Piyanah, were brought up properly
and they were brought up as equals.
So he wants the tribe to learn that,
but the only way the tribe will learn that is if
she becomes a warrior
and he becomes a squaw.
Yes, and this is really the crux of it.
They each had to fully play out and embody the other's role
before they could lead together.
Exactly, and it would be seven years.
But then, if they did that and they were respected,
the tribe would see the equality,
that there is the balance between the male and female,
which will be honored.
And of course, it is in that balance
of the male and female energetically,
and on the planet today, that if we don't bring it
into balance, we will not heal the planet really,
we will not, which is why Joan's message is so important.
That doesn't mean women need to understand
man's experiences and man needs to understand and speak
to women with that understanding.
And this really goes deeply into it because
she had to become a warrior, she had to become a hunter,
she had to--
She had to become a scarlet feather which means--
And the scarlet feather.
The most courageous, she'd be incredibly courageous.
And indeed--
And this is something that we see from that other
lifetime in the Winged Pharaoh.
She was carrying through.
Mmmhmm, mmmhmm.
And there wasn't the discrimination.
And didn't they then begin as leaders--
Yes!
Exposing their tribespeople to the old ways again,
the more advanced old ways again.
Exactly, exactly, exactly.
So they do.
In Scarlet Feather, that's the teaching of it.
It's finding that dyadic, the power of two relationship.
And indeed that book--
And it's beautiful.
It's a joy to read.
Anybody that wants to look at the real co-mingling
of masculine and feminine energies and wisdom.
Again, these aren't just stories.
We're not bringing this up as just stories and experiences
of Joan, but these are works of artistry
and great wisdom
that people can, they absorb it as they're reading it.
Right. And one of the things, one of the reasons
Joan's books move into us when we read them
is there's a lot of poetry.
And I don't mean there are poems in them,
but there's a rhythmic poetry in the way they're written,
which just moves into our soul and our spirit
as we read them.
I think it's one of the reasons that they have that power.
Yeah, I absolutely agree.
But in the Old Testament
the translation of a word that was mistranslated
that I just want to share with you,
Tsela, which was translated as a rib
was mistranslated in that it means
when Adam was to go to sleep,
tsela means the other half.
The other half.
Out of the dream
comes the other half.
That makes the man and woman.
So the woman is from the intuitive dream side,
but it isn't a rib, it's the other half.
There's a huge difference.
Huge difference.
I mean it has deep philosophical implications.
If you're born into a culture that, as a woman,
you come to understand that
your entire lineage is from the rib,
if you're going to take it literally anyway,
you're from the rib of a man.
You're the rib, honey.
Yeah, you're the rib, honey.
Not the other half.
I felt that even as a little child, I thought.
Oh really, I'm a girl, it's hmmm.
Well, that's interesting.
Well, this can actually segue into the Galiliean--
Yes it can, and do you want to go a little bit into
the Eyes of Horus first and--
Yes, sure.
Who were the watchers
of the horizon?
What was trying to be carried forward?
As we move to the Middle Kingdom,
into the Middle Kingdom, there were moments of decadence
in Egypt.
There are the two books that John wrote.
Lord of the Horizon of Eyes of Horus,
about really a rebellion to bring the truth
back into the culture.
And indeed in the Eyes of Horus,
there is a fine pharaoh
that is put into place after this revolution.
Two books deal with the whole experience.
Who were the watchers of horizon?
They were a group that wanted to get rid of this decadence
but the pharaoh that comes in,
he says, "This is the first law of the land."
And he says,
"The law is seek for happiness
"as lesser men seek power."
Yes, wow. Yes.
Now, isn't it interesting that Thomas Jefferson
managed to get the word happiness into our
declaration of independence?
But he was a great student of the ancient
mysteries as well.
That's true.
So happiness.
You know, when I walk around and see all these people
looking at their cell phones or on the subways
when I'm working in New York and on the subways in New York,
do I see a happy face on the subways?
No.
Not one.
So happiness, we are supposed to manifest
with joy and happiness.
That is one of the assignments we human beings have.
Absolutely.
And as you're talking about that, and we talked
a little bit off-camera about the notion that
people's world has become encapsulated in this little device
is sad.
I mean, I'm in airports all the time and people
are bumping into each other on their cellphones,
nobody looks up, there's no connection between people.
But talk about the antithesis to what Joan was saying,
if you want to expand yourself into the all,
you have to first develop your five senses.
This is a total narrowing down of the senses
to be addicted to this technology.
Exactly.
It is a culture of addiction to technology.
Television, the whole thing.
Not good.
So now we can go to The Galilean.
Yeah, go ahead.
Okay, let's talk about The Galilean,
because when you realize that the male and female
are really sacred parts
of what we are,
equal parts but with different scopes,
so The Galilean, Joan in the's 40s, 1943, I think,
started having regressions
and contact with a Galilean.
And this was (mumbles) in Wales,
with her second husband,
Charles Beatty.
And these were profound,
shocking experiences to her.
She had no real upbringing in the church
or Christianity.
And at first she thought it was Nesera who had been
her teacher, Cicada's teacher in the temple,
she first thought.
But then she thought, oh this is the Galilean.
So that was the first encounter.
And then later, she started having more.
And in the 1970s, when I went to work with her,
this is long before 1979 when Elaine Pagels
published The Gnostic Gospels,
Joan said to me, "He had blue eyes and red hair."
She never said, I knew exactly who she was talking about.
Everything Joan had ever said to me I found was true
over the years.
I would see, oh it's true.
In the research I did, the line of Jesse,
which is King David's line, which Jesus was,
they had blue eyes and red hair, they were ruddy.
They were red.
So when she said this to me, but I knew,
I mean, she just, I got blasted.
I mean, I said, okay.
So, but she didn't go on before.
But then we found writings when we did this book
about The Galilean, about the Magdalene.
And so--
First of all, why didn't she publish any of this?
Well, I think it was--
Was she just self conscious--
I think it was too loaded.
I just think it was to be loaded.
I mean, she was a courageous woman but I think--
Living in a very Christian world.
Yes, I think it was too loaded.
So what I know from what I read that she wrote
is in the book.
They taught together, they healed together.
They were dyadic, they were the power of two.
You're talking about Jesus and Magdalene, yes,
in The Magdalene.
And then after he died, she took
80 or so of his followers on a boat
and he told her to leave
and to take them to the south of France.
And of course, that's exactly what she did.
And she ended up on an island off of...
Near Marseille, I guess, a little island that they called...
That the Gypsies called her the Egyptian,
which is interesting.
Yes, I was just going to ask you about that.
And they say she was Egyptian--
Well, there's a thought.
Well, they are different.
I did a book, ended up doing a book because of my
association with Joan called--
Yes, and I want to spend the rest of this time,
the interview, talking about your fascination,
but go ahead.
What I've discovered when I was researching
for Searching for Mary Magdalene,
so it was a journey in art and literature
that there was a place in Egypt called Magdalam.
Not Magdala, there are two, but Magdalam,
which was in Egypt.
And she may have been from Egypt.
I mean, I don't--
I mean a lot of the, again, revised history,
has her as a high initiate, not as a poor woman.
Well, right.
We know she wore her hair free, and so a Jewish woman
would not have worn her hair free.
She might have been Egyptian.
I think my research
(stutters)
it says in the New Testament that she was healed
of seven demons.
It was, again, another mistranslation.
I think it was, again, a kind of initiation.
Maybe she was healed of spirits that, you know,
the way in which I was healed by Joan,
I mean, a piece of her that was outside.
I think he may have done a healing for her.
But in the Gnostic texts, in the Gospel of Mary,
there is no question, she was his most significant disciple.
She was the woman who knew the all,
and he was always surrounded by women.
Let's talk about that because all we think
are his disciples that are well--
Well, guess what?
I mean, there was Joanna, there was Salome,
there was Mary, he was surrounded by women.
And so the later church or Constantine in 325,
because he was really his religion before Christianity,
which was expedient for him to become Christian,
he was a member of Mithraic religion and Sol Invictus,
which was, these were both all-male warrior cults,
so the women were not part
of his religion.
Yes.
Although there was at the time, I believe St. Brigid
who was a bishop in Ireland but she never got
to sit down
and work on the New Testament with the boys.
So the women were really cut out of the religion
and all of a sudden, it became a very something,
you know, women became something else.
But they were healing and teaching and doing his work,
I do believe.
So you know.
So the one thing I wanted to get back to also in a moment,
because she was considered to be a high initiate
and she--
She was.
Yes, did she go into any of the other parts of his life
and Mary's life in terms of their being
parents together and having--
No, so that did not, no, that didn't come up.
We didn't have writings.
However, supposedly there was a manuscript.
And Nicky, we've all tried, Sophia, Nicky and I
have all tried to find this manuscript but guess what,
it hasn't emerged yet.
But we do have some of the writings.
And the information
is that they healed together, they taught together
and she was really his most important follower
in the Gospel of Mary that was published in German in 1955.
I don't think it was translated into English
until much, much later.
And Joan, of course, didn't speak German.
But the Gospel of Mary, it's clear that she was really,
she was the one.
And so you went ahead and wrote the book,
Searching for Mary Magdalene.
Yes.
Let's talk about your work and why you did that.
I mean, was it Joan's work
that stimulated yours?
Exactly.
And so you went to try to figure out
other pieces of this story.
Tell us the story as you know it.
Well, I wanted to show, include in the book,
all of the references to the Magdalene
in the New Testament.
And then I wanted to include paintings and what have you.
Then I brought it up,
up through to the present really
so you have the Magdalene was
honored by Jesus but then Constantine
put a lid on that and then later on,
Pope Gregory put another lid on her
by saying she was a whore basically.
And then again, this is illustrated--
That was a good way to put women in their place
for a long time.
Absolutely!
And then during the Middle Ages, the real Magdalene
went underground because
there was understanding that she was.
I mean, in the south of France,
they knew she was a powerful figure in Jesus's life.
I did not find
any proof of a child, but there was no question
that she was understood to be a very important person,
partner, companion.
And so I have many examples.
Do, give them.
In the book.
But the Cathars and Albigensians
who believed in reincarnation,
were perfect Christians, healed, worked with the dying.
They were deemed heretic by the Roman church
and millions of them were burned at the stake.
But they believed in reincarnations and they went
to their deaths.
But women and men were priests together
and taught together
and honored the Magdalene.
But they were burned at the stake.
What is the black Madonna?
Well, I guess if you're Egyptian,
(laughs)
you're darker than--
Yes, that's why I'm asking because I mean, again,
the gypsies of that region have passed down
through the centuries that Mary was the Egyptian,
and then there is--
And indeed.
Indeed--
She's depicted as dark skinned.
If Joan were here,
she might fill us in more
about the color of her skin.
But she did tell me about Jesus's hair and eyes.
(laughs)
So the black Madonna might be some reference?
Of course, of course, to the Magdalene.
So I became very interested, and I enjoyed
wildly researching the book.
It was a great joy for me.
And it's won an award, and so I feel very honored.
It's called, again, Searching for Mary Magdalene.
That's your work,
basing it on Joan's work, but then going ahead
and taking it further into the--
Yes, I included every reference...
Every reference that is from the New Testament
and also every apocryphal reference to the Magdalene.
Does it have anything in the way it characterizes
her nature or the way--
Yeah, she was--
Talk about what she was like and her effect on people.
Well, clearly, she understood his teachings
in the most profound way.
And there were miracles.
I mean, I think we have in here some of the miracles
that they did together.
And she talks about miracles, the issues of miracles.
She writes about it in here.
We have it in here.
She was clearly the most beloved of...
He loved her in a way that...
She resented, one of the things Joan resented
in this incarnation, she hated to see crucifixions.
He was a vibrant, extraordinary soul.
And to see a dead man on the cross, I can't,
you know, this is not--
This isn't the message, that wasn't the intended message.
No, that is not the message.
And of course, the medieval church was so punishing.
There would be sermons about...
Even if it's your sister and she's sinned
and you could pull her back from hell,
you are not to bring her back.
I mean, very punishing.
And so of course Joan hated that, just hated it.
It was a misunderstanding of teaching life and light.
Yes, not the message.
So what about the famous Last Supper and the--
Oh well, indeed, the da Vinci picture does.
It's certainly--
It looks like a woman.
There's no question about it.
And of course, you have to understand, with Leonardo,
his teacher was the head librarian
at the Medici library.
The Medici library housed all the great
hermetic manuscripts and was considered...
I can't quite remember the name of the artist
who he studied with for much longer
than any apprentice would.
He studied with him.
And probably, when we leave here, I'll think of it.
But he was the head librarian and that library
contained all the great hermetic information.
And so da Vinci was
aware of these ideas, without question.
That Mary Magdalene was that--
Yeah, without question.
He would have known that.
He also had a sense of mischief,
and so, you know,
he would've, I do think it's the Magdalene.
Yes, okay.
I do, I do.
Just wanted to get that from you.
And so when we look at all of this, I mean,
and there are other books as well,
but let's sum up, have you sum up really
what Joan, why she wrote these books and what the larger,
overarching point of all of it was to us,
why we should bother reading them, besides the fact
they're poetic and beautiful.
I mean, I'm in an arc of my life now,
the final arc of my life.
And so I'm losing friends and I'm facing death.
Why? The books free us from a fear of death.
Every one of them.
Why should we be afraid of death?
Joan said dying is nothing, it's like stepping out
of an old dress.
Well, she would.
To punish her, I'd say, dying is nothing,
it's like stepping out of an old tunic or whatever.
But it is the same message.
We are living in a time of terrorism.
To be free of the fear of death is a gift like no other.
So I think that's one of them,
to inform us about how to be
fuller human beings,
developing our senses, having a sense of justice,
and these books do that without question.
So I think the greater teaching here,
and that we...
Freedom and happiness should be our heritage.
Yes.
Not power.
And power seems to me,
as I look around, in the East Coast we have fracking,
the water is polluted, our children are getting,
my generation of parents,
our children are getting ill when we are not.
My daughter came down with cancer in her 30s,
colorectal cancer, unheard of in her 30s.
There's no genetic.
But I see that.
I have many friends whose children are--
Are dying before they are, yes.
Not a good inheristance.
So what is that telling us?
We are polluting our world, the things we eat, you know?
Come on?
How silly are we?
We don't have to be this way?
To not honor nature, and that's another big thing
in this book, is the honoring, and all the books,
is the honoring of nature and working in companionship
with the animal and plant kingdom and the cosmos.
I mean, it's really very beautiful.
It's clear.
And to destroy nature and not to see it all as sacred,
this is all God.
It's the living, anything that lives
or the mystery, the Spirit, God, the gods,
it's all sacral and you know,
how foolish to think, oh gee,
I'll trade that for stuff, for power, okay?
You know, I think that's why the books are so important now.
I think the reason I got on the plane to come here, frankly,
is simply because right now,
the teachings are as important as they were in 1938
before the second world war.
We need this teaching now.
You know, we never got to it in the last program
because people are going to saying, God, oh, I would love
to develop my abilities.
And Joan, again, she said, first develop the five senses.
This was in the first hour we spoke;
and then go from there.
But what were her own protocols?
How did she go in?
What kind of state did she go into and begin accessing
what were called, what was hoves, the word hoves?
Well, it was shifting levels.
And when we are hypnotized, there's no question,
you will shift levels, there's no question.
Sometimes, she would do it in a bathtub.
Yes, because water is a great conductor that way.
Yes, exactly.
Or sometimes, it would just come on her and she'll say,
I feel a hove coming on, you know, and she would shift.
And she could do it.
I mean, when I was working with K, her husband,
her psychiatrist husband and being hypnotized,
she would be in another room.
She wouldn't be in the room with me,
but she would be in the incident.
And then finally, the last session I had,
she came into the room and was in my incident,
but she would, I think, it's...
She would just shift levels.
Now more than that,
I do not know.
Joan would have to tell us.
Okay.
And I understand that.
I mean, there is a process of shifting levels
if you want to go to a certain area for information,
for example, or to blend with other things,
and that's a lifelong journey.
That's what people, I mean, really, like she did,
that's something one has to choose to discover
for themselves.
Now one of, I think, Joan's interest and certainly mine
is how do we educate our children?
Why not find a way
of educating our children to be sensitive to their senses
instead of sticking them in front of computer screens,
to be interested in history again.
These is our history,
to communicate with one another, to know that we learn
in relationship, in the overlap.
She would always do this.
You learn in the overlap with another human being.
I remember having--
Where the fields meet.
Yes, where the fields meet.
And it would be wonderful
to have a university or schools that encourage that.
And maybe there are, maybe Montessori does
and I don't know but--
Waldorf does too at Fairmount, yes.
Yes, exactly, the Steiner schools.
But I think that's another area that we need to--
Teach the children things that are meaningful,
don't have them become regurgitators of facts.
Exactly.
Thank you so much for your time,
and I really so encourage people to dive into her works
and go into this exquisite world of beauty and of truth
on a different level.
Yes, wisdom.
Yes, absolutely.
Thank you, Regina.
Well, we've only scratched the surface
of the information brought through by Joan Grant.
She wrote seven books in her lifetime,
including the wonderful Autobiography of Far Memory.
This, along with Jane's work, can be found
through major booksellers and is a very beautiful
and worthwhile journey, in my opinion.
Until next time, thank you for joining us here
on Gaiam TV.
(instrumental music)